My name is Peter June. So far, I have learned about how the transaction model in Bitcoin works. It uses the Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO) model. This is where you have lot of inputs containing different amounts and evrything is spent during a transaction creating different outputs, some can remain with the sender depending on the amount being transferred while the rest goes to the receiver. I was also able to set up my bitcoin environment on wsl2, configuring it with the bitcoin.conf file.

So I used the "bitcoin-cli getblockchaininfo" to confirm I was on regtest although my blocks and header values were 101 respectively. Then I tried to use "bitcoin-cli -regtest generatetoaddress 101 "$(bitcoin-cli -regtest getnewaddress)" to generate new blocks but I ran into an error which you will see in 2.png. I had to create a wallet first, I did so and named it "testwallet1" which can be seen in 3.png. Then I successfully ran the previous command and it was successful, make reference to 4.png and 5.png.

I ran "bitcoin-cli getblockcount" and got 202 as my output, make reference to 6.png. I ran "bitcoin-cli getbestblockhash" and I received a hash output which can be seen in 7.png. Then in 8.png I ran the "getblock" command on the hash output from before and in 10.png I ran "getblockheader". In 11.png, I ran "listaddressgroupings" to get the list of addresses I had in that particular wallet. Then I created a new address in 12.png.

I tried to send test coins to a new address but it failed saying there was no fallback fee, you can see that in 13.png. So I had to go back to my bitcoin.conf file to add "fallbackfee=0.0001" then ran it again and it worked, giving me the txid as output. Then, I ran "gettransaction" on the txid and got output as you can see in 14.png, I ran "listunspent" and it show all the unspent outputs I had, it was a lot, the amounts in each of them differed, you can see that in 15.png and 16.png. I also ran "getrawtransaction" in 17.png.

In 18.png, I ran "listwallets" to show the particular wallet I was currently in, "testwallet1". Then I switched to another wallet I created before I started this exersice, "testwallet", using "loadwallet <name of wallet>".

In 19.png, I generated a new address in "testwallet" then I switched to "testwallet1" and sent 50BTC to the address I created in "testwallet". I used getbalance to confirm balance changes. I ran "gettransaction" on the txid in 20.png. Then finally in 21.png, I mined a new block so the transaction can be included on the blockchain, the balance was updated.